Disadvantages of owning a server
    Buying stack of server - Setup expensive
    Monitoring and maintaining server - troubleshooting problems - conflicts with business goals
    Varying traffic
        High traffic? More server
        Less traffic? Server idle

Cloud CComputing(CC)
    Cloud computing is on demand delivery of IT resources/services over the internet on a pay-as-you-go basis
    IT resources
        Computing power
        Storage
        Database
        Machine Learning
        Data analytics
        IOT

    Cloud providers - AWS, Azure, GCP, IBMcloud, etc

    Uses
        Data backup
        Disaster recovery
        Email
        Virtual desktop
        Software development and Testing
        Big Data Analytics
        Customer facing web application
    
    Advantages
        Agile
        Secure
        Reduced cost
        Scalability
        Fault tolerant - highly available
        Fast deployment
        Variable expense
        Access from anywhere
        Deployment in multiple physical location
    Note: Closer - reduced latency

Cloud Service Models
    SaaS(Software as a Service)
        SaaS replaces  the traditional on-device software with software that is licenced on a subscription basis. It is centrally hosted in the cloud.
        Most SaaS applications can be accessed directly from the web browser without any downloads or installation required. However, some SaaS application require plubin.
        Example: Salesforce.com - CRM(Customer Relation Manager)
        Advantages
            Cost effective
            Accessible
            Reduced Time
            Automatic update
            Scalability
    PaaS(Platform as a Service)
        PaaS allows organizations to build, run and manage applications without the IT infrastructure. This makes easier and faster to develop,test and deploy applications.
        No control over the underlying architecture.
        Developers can focus on writing code and creating application without worrying about time-consuming IT infrastructure activities such as provisioning servers, storages and backup.
        It can reduce your management overhead and lower your costs.
        PaaS also makes it easier for you to innovate and scale your service on demand.
        Advantages
            Simple and convenient for user.
            Cost-effective
            Effectively managing the lifecycle.
    IaaS(Infrastructure as a Service)
        It is a self service model for managing remote datacenter infrastructures.
        IaaS provides virtualized computing resources over the internet hosted by a third party such as AWS, GCP and Azure.
        Instead of an organization purchasing hardware , companies purchase a consumption model.
        IaaS enables companies to add, delete or reconfigure IT infrastructure on demand.
        Advantages
            Cost effective
            Security
            Maintenance


            IaaS            PaaS            SaaS
            
            Data            Data            Data
            Application     Application     
            Runtime                         Application
            Middleware      Runtime         Runtime
            OS              Middleware      Middleware
                            OS              OS
            Virtualization  Virtualization  Virtualization
            Server          Server          Server
            Storage         Storage         Storage
            Networking      Networking      Networking

Cloud Deployment Models
    Public cloud
        Resources available for the general public under pay as you go model.
    Private cloud
        Resources managed and used by the organization
    Community cloud
        Resources shared by several organizations usually in the the same technology
    Hybrid cloud
        Partly managed by the service provider and partly by organizations
    
Virtualization
    Virtual Machine
        IN computing, a virtual machine is the virtualization/emulation of a computer system.
        Virtual machines are based on computer architectures and provide functionality of a physical computer. Their implementation involve specialized hardware, software or combination of both.
        Virtual machine allows you to run an OS in an application window on your desktop that behaves like a full separate computer.

    Architecture
        Everything necessary to run an app is contained within the virtual machine - the virtualized hardware, an OS, and any required binaries and libraries. therefore, virtual machine have their own infrastructure & are self contained.
        Each VM is completely isolated from the host OS.
        Also, it requires its own OS, which can be different from the host's OS. Each has its own binaries, libraries and applications.

    Hypervisor
        VMs run on top of a physical machine using a 'Hypervisor'.
        The hypervisors themselves run on physical computers referred to as 'Host Machine'.
        The host machine provides the VMs with resources including RAM & CPU.
        The VM that is running on the host machine is also often called a 'Guest machines'

    Advantages of VMs
        Sharing of resources helps cost reduction.
        Virtual machines are isolated from each other as they are physically separated.
        Virtual machines encapsulate a complete computing environment.
        Virtual machines run independently of underlying hardware.
        Virtual machines can be migrated between different hosts.

    Disadvantages of VMs
        It can have a high cost of implementation.
        It creates a security risk
        It creates an availability issue
        It creates a scalability issue
        It requires several links in a chain that must work together cohesively.
AWS
    AWS is a broadly adopted cloud platform with widest database that offers several on demand services such as compute database and storage
    Benefits of AWS
        High security standards
        Good availability
        High performance
        System integrators - APIs
        Operational experience - Large community of customer across every industry.

Accessing AWS service
    Through AWS console
        A simple web user interface to manage and view resources
    Through AWS Command Line Interface(AWS CLI)
        Unified tool to manage AWS services with just one tool to download.
        Can control multiple AWS services from command line and automate them using scripts.
    Through Software Development Kit(SDK)
        SDKs simplify use of AWS services in our application with API's.

AWS Architecture
    AWS regions
        An AWS region is a geographical area.
        Each region contains multiple Availability Zones(AZs)
        Each region is designed to be completely physically isolated from each other.
        Connected by low latency, high throughput and highly redundant networking.

    AWS Availability Zones
        AZs are location into which one can launch resources such as Amazon EC2 instance.
        AZs are physically separated and isolated from each other.

Edge Computing
    Future of cloud computing
    Consists of edge nodes/locations - Computing and data storage close to source of data.
    Great response time - saves bandwidth(max rate of data transfer across given path)

Domains of AWS
    Compute - ec2 - resizable compute capacity - clean slate
    Elastic BeanStalk - Deploy Application - predefined libraries
    Migration - Virtual migration
              - Physical migration(Snowball)
    Security Compliance - IAM(Identification & Authentication Management tool)
                        - KMS - Create public and private keys
    Storage - S3 - bucket_object
    Cloud front - Content delivery network
    Networking - VPC - Virtual network
               - Direct Connect - least internet connection
    Messaging - Cloud Trial
              - OPS work
    Databases: Aurora - SQL like - 5x faster
                      - Dynamo - noSQL
    Management tools - Cloud watch
                     - Monitory Tool